Added documentation for PTDevices integration (#41727)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/ptdevices.markdown

---
title: PTDevices

> description: Instructions on how to integrate you PTLevel into Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Instructions on how to integrate your PTLevel into Home Assistant.
```

> ha_release: 2026.5.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.6
```

> ha_category: Sensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_category: 
   - Sensor
```

ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_quality_scale: bronze
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@frogman85978'
  - '@paremtech-inc'
ha_domain: ptdevices
ha_integration_type: hub
---

> 

Reviewer: is "cistern monitor" accurate? The supported device list mentions septic, deep well, and temperature probe. Are these all cistern monitor devices?

Author: Yes, the septic ones are not for cisterns, but all the other ones are. If it is preferred, I can replace "cistern monitor" with "PTLevel", since that is technically the product line.

Reviewer: hm, yes. Maybe better to keep it more generic in the intro.

Author: Sounds good

> The `PTDevices` integration allows you to integrate your PTDevice cistern monitor into Home Assistant.

Reviewer: Please add a link to the product website

> The `PTDevices` integration allows you to integrate your PTDevice cistern monitor into Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **PTDevices** {% term integration %} allows you to integrate your PTDevice cistern monitor into Home Assistant.
```

Use cases include:

- Send notifications for low level or excessive usage.
- Setup Automations to turn off pumps when running low.
- Setup Automations to run appliances after water has been delivered.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Supported devices

- PTLevel Long Range Wireless
- PTLevel Long Range Wireless - Septic
- PTLevel Long Range Wireless - Deep Well
- PTLevel Wired Wifi
- PTLevel Wired Wifi - Septic
- PTLevel Wired Wifi - Temperature Probe

```
- We usually mention the supported devices before the installation instruction
- We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization), also in headings

> ## Token API key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> You will need to create a token for your PTDevices account if your haven't done so already. If your have already generated a Token API token, you don't need to generate another one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to create a token for your PTDevices account if you haven't done so already. If you have already generated a Token API token, you don't need to generate another one.
```

> 1. Login to your PTDevices account that contains the devices your wish to integrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your PTDevices account that contains the devices you wish to integrate.
```

> 2. Go to **My Account** page from the left hand side menu or [https://www.ptdevices.com/profile](https://www.ptdevices.com/profile)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to the **My Account** page from the left hand side menu or [https://www.ptdevices.com/profile](https://www.ptdevices.com/profile).
```

3. Go to the **Settings** page from the top menu.

> 4. At the bottom of this page, click the **Regenerate API Token** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. At the bottom of this page, select the **Regenerate API Token** button.
```
We prefer [select over click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)

5. Copy the generated API token to a safe location. This API token will be used when setting up the PTDevices integration in Home Assistant.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Supported Devices

- PTLevel Long Range Wireless
- PTLevel Long Range Wireless - Septic
- PTLevel Long Range Wireless - Deep Well
- PTLevel Wired Wifi
- PTLevel Wired Wifi - Septic

> - PTLevel Wired Wifi - Temperature Probe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Examples

### Send a push notification when Low on water

```yaml
alias: "PTDevice - Low Level Notification"
description: "Notify when the level drops below a set level"
mode: single
triggers:
  - trigger: numeric_state
    entity_id:
      - sensor.TARGET_PTDEVICE_level_percent
    below: 15
conditions: []
actions:
  - action: notify.TARGET_MOBILE_DEVICE
    data:
      message: "Your PTDevice has dropped below 15%, its time to order water."
      title: "Your PTDevice is below 15%"
```

Replace TARGET_PTDEVICE and TARGET_MOBILE_DEVICE with your actual devices.

## Supported functionality

> ### ENTITIES

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The PTDevices integration provides the following entities.

{% note %}

> Some sensors are disabled by default, since they provide information that is only useful for advanced users. You can manually enable them in **{% my entities title="Settings -> Devices & Services -> Entities" %}** -> the sensor entity you want to enable -> Advanced settings -> Enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some sensors are disabled by default because they provide information that is only useful to advanced users. You can manually enable them in {% my entities title="**Settings** > **Devices & services** > **Entities**" %} > the sensor entity you want to enable > **Advanced settings** > **Enabled**.
```
We use [bold to markup UI strings](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide)

{% endnote %}

> #### Sensors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sensors
```

> - **Level Depth**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Level depth**:
```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization)

> - **Level Depth**:

Reviewer: Please align the sensor names with the names in core.

  - **Description**: The depth of the remaining fluid.
  - **Available for models**: All
- **Level Percent**:
  - **Description**: The remaining level in percent.
  - **Available for models**: All
- **Level Volume**:

>   - **Description**: The volume of remaining fluid.

Reviewer: What's the unit? Liters?

Author: Yes. Do you want me to add `- **Unit**: ` for all the sensors?

Author: Do you want the full name, `Liters`, or the standard abbreviation, `L`?

Reviewer: yes, for all of them sounds good. 
Units: good question. Most of the time, just the abbreviation is used, but when having it on a separate line like that, I like it spelled out as you did here.

  - **Available for models**: All
- **Probe Temperature**:
  - **Description**: The current temperature measured by the external temperature probe.
  - **Available for models**: PTLevel Wired Wifi With Temperature Probe
- **Status**:

>   - **Description**: The current status of the device. e.g. Working or Not Connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Description**: The current status of the device. For example, **Working** or **Not connected**.
```
we prefer "for example", or "such as" over e.g., see also https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/eg

  - **Available for models**: All
- **Battery Voltage**:
  - **Description**: The current voltage reading of the onboard batteries.
  - **Available for models**: All battery powered models
  - **Remarks**: Disabled by default for advanced uses.
- **WiFi Signal Strength**:
  - **Description**: The signal strength of the WiFi at the receiver/WiFI device.
  - **Available for models**: All
  - **Remarks**: Disabled by default for advanced uses.
- **LoRa Signal Strength**:
  - **Description**: The signal strength between the receiver and transmitter.
  - **Available for models**: PTLevel Long Range Wireless Only
  - **Remarks**: Disabled by default for advanced uses.

> ## Data Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data updates
```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization)

The integration {% term polling polls %} data from PTDevices every 60 seconds by default.

> ## Known Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known limitations
```

---
title: "PTDevices"
description: "home-assistant.io web presence"
ha_release: "0.38"
ha_category: Integration
ha_iot_class: "Cloud Polling"
ha_quality_scale: bronze
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@paremtech-inc'
  - '@frogman85978'

> ha_domain: ptdevices

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend to check other newer integrations

---

The `PTDevices` integration allows you to integrate your PTDevice cistern monitor into Home Assistant.
Use cases include:

> - With the notify integration installed, you can send notifications for low level.

Reviewer 2: this isn't a thing today

## Examples

### Send a push notification when Low on water

```yaml
alias: "PTDevice - Low Level Notification"
description: "Notify when the level drops below a set level"
mode: single
triggers:
  - trigger: numeric_state
    entity_id:
      - sensor.TARGET_PTDEVICE_level_percent
    below: 15
conditions: []
actions:
  - action: notify.TARGET_MOBILE_DEVICE
    data:
      message: "Your PTDevice has dropped below 15%, its time to order water."
      title: "Your PTDevice is below 15%"
```

Replace TARGET_PTDEVICE and TARGET_MOBILE_DEVICE with your actual devices.

## Supported functionality

### ENTITIES

The PTDevices integration provides the following entities.

{% note %}

Some sensors are disabled by default, since they provide information that is only useful for advanced users. You can manually enable them in **{% my entities title="Settings -> Devices & Services -> Entities" %}** -> the sensor entity you want to enable -> Advanced settings -> Enabled.

{% endnote %}

#### Binary Sensors

- **Battery Status**:
  - **Description**: The current status of the onboard batteries. e.g. Normal or Low
  - **Available for models**: All battery powered models

> #### Sensors

Reviewer 2: not all are available today
